



































Generative Artificial Intelligence Guidelines - April 2023


 

* Some content adapted from a report of the Academic Integrity Committee of the George Washington University Law School, 
April 4, 2023. 

 

 

Guidelines for Using Generative Artificial Intelligence at the 
George Washington University 

April 2023 

 

The Promise of Generative Artificial Intelligence 

 
The wide availability of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) tools, such as ChatGPT and other 
large language models, is driving an ongoing conversation about their academic uses.  GAI tools 
represent an exciting addition to the learning process that can be deployed in innovative ways to 
advance learning objectives.  This document provides some guidelines for the use of GAI in 
connection with academic work at the University. 
 
The Office of the Provost encourages the entire University community to embrace these 
technologies through creative uses and applications.  Faculty are invited to make thoughtful use 
of GAI tools in their teaching and research.  Used properly, GAI tools can enhance the design of 
lessons, assignments, and assessments. 
 
Our students will use GAI tools for the rest of their lives.  There are many productive ways in 
which they might use them as students, consistent with stated course policies and 
objectives.  Examples include: brainstorming ideas; summarizing and translating content; 
explaining new concepts to aid comprehension; generating counter-arguments; suggesting titles; 
debugging code; gathering sources; and formatting references. 
 

Designing Assignments 

 
Even as we are learning ourselves, we must teach our students to use GAI tools effectively and 
responsibly: to draft appropriate prompts; to think critically about the proper use of the tools and 
their possible effects on society; to evaluate their outputs with respect to accuracy, bias, and 
equity.  Exercises might include having students formulate effective prompts; identify superficial 
rhetoric in GAI-generated content; and evaluate GAI-generated arguments for soundness 
and  logical validity.  Students could be asked to fact-check, criticize, and/or edit GAI-generated 
content for credit. 
 
The Instructional Core in the Division of Libraries and Academic Innovation has provided useful 
guidance for instructors on Responding to Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) Tools.  The 
Office of the Provost encourages instructors to consult these resources. 
 

Encouraging Responsible Use 

 
For all their promise, GAI tools misused could interfere with learning objectives and impair the 
development of students’ writing, analytical, and technical skills.  There are also legitimate 
concerns about academic ethics, accuracy, citation of sources, and cheating. 
 
The Office of Student Rights & Responsibilities maintains a Faculty Guide to Clarifying Academic 
Expectations that directly addresses the use of GAI tools in connection with academic work.  An 

https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/
https://instruction.gwu.edu/
https://library.gwu.edu/generative-ai
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2023-01/clarifying-resource-use.docx
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2023-01/clarifying-resource-use.docx


instructor who suspects an academic integrity violation should consider submitting a Charge of 
Academic Dishonesty.  Note: the Law School and the School of Medicine and Health Sciences 
maintain their own codes of academic integrity, so the guidance contained in this document does 
not apply to these schools. 
 
The Office of the Provost encourages instructors to state explicitly and affirmatively their 
expectations regarding student use of GAI tools.  Instructors should specify in writing the 
permitted and prohibited uses of GAI tools in their courses.  Instructors might 1) generally permit 
the use of GAI tools; 2) generally forbid their use; or 3) permit their use for certain purposes on 
certain assignments, but not others.  If an instructor wishes to permit certain uses of GAI tools, 
such uses must be set forth explicitly in the course syllabus and/or assignment 
instructions.  Below is some model language for the three permission options: 

General Permission 

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) tools such as ChatGPT are becoming important resources in many 
fields and industries.  Accordingly, you are permitted to use such tools to generate content submitted for 
evaluation in this course, including [papers; take-home examinations; specified other assignments].  You 
remain responsible for all content you submit for evaluation. 

[Instructors might also wish to include language regarding pitfalls, such as the following:] You may use GAI 
tools to help generate ideas and brainstorm.  However, you should note that the material generated by these 
tools may be inaccurate, incomplete, or otherwise problematic.  Beware that use may also stifle your own 
independent thinking and creativity. 

[Instructors might also wish to include language regarding citation, such as the following:] If you include 

content (e.g., ideas, text, code, images) that was generated, in whole or in part, by Generative Artificial 
Intelligence tools (including, but not limited to, ChatGPT and other large language models) in work submitted 
for evaluation in this course, you must document and credit your source.  For example, text generated using 
ChatGPT-4 should include a citation such as: “ChatGPT-4. (YYYY, Month DD of query). ‘Text of your query.’ 
Generated using OpenAI. https://chat.openai.com/.” Material generated using other tools should be cited 
accordingly.  Failure to do so in this course constitutes failure to attribute under the George Washington 
University Code of Academic Integrity. 

General Prohibition 

By submitting work for evaluation in this course, you represent it as your own intellectual product.  You may 
not submit for evaluation any content (e.g., ideas, text, code, images) that was generated, in whole or in part, 
by Generative Artificial Intelligence tools (including, but not limited to, ChatGPT and other large language 
models).  Doing so in this course constitutes cheating under the George Washington University Code of 
Academic Integrity. 

[Instructors might also wish to include language regarding papers about AI:] Although this course generally 
prohibits use of GAI tools, the instructor may choose to grant an exception if you propose to write a paper 
about [some aspect of artificial intelligence].  Such an exception must be granted in writing (e.g., email) to 
avoid the danger of misunderstanding. 

Selective Permission 

By submitting work for evaluation in this course, you represent it as your own intellectual product.  You may 
not submit for evaluation any content (e.g., ideas, text, code, images) that was generated, in whole or in part, 
by Generative Artificial Intelligence tools (including, but not limited to, ChatGPT and other large language 
models) unless the instructor has explicitly granted permission to do so.  Your instructor will explain to you 
the uses of GAI tools that are permitted or prohibited in this course, including on what specific assignments 
use of GAI tools is permitted.  Submitting content for evaluation that was produced in whole or in part by GAI 
tools, except for the specific purpose(s) and assignment(s) discussed and authorized by the instructor, 
constitutes cheating in this course under the George Washington University Code of Academic Integrity. 

[Instructors choosing the Selective Permission option might also wish to include some or all of the additional 
potential language from the General Permission and General Prohibition options, above.] 

 
 

https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/guidance-reporting-parties
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/guidance-reporting-parties
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf


Default Rules 

 
In the absence of explicit directions to the contrary from instructors, the following default rules 
apply at the University. 
 

1. Work submitted for evaluation is represented as the student’s own intellectual 
product.  Students may not submit content (e.g., ideas, text, code, images) for evaluation 
that was generated, in whole or in part, by Generative Artificial Intelligence tools (such as 
ChatGPT and other large language models).  Doing so without instructor’s explicit 
permission constitutes cheating under the Code of Academic Integrity and is therefore 
prohibited. 
 
Examples (illustrative only) of conduct that is prohibited unless explicitly permitted by the 
instructor: 

• A student types a prompt into a GAI tool and pastes all or part of the generated 
content into their answer on an out-of-class assessment or test. 

• A student types a prompt into a GAI tool and incorporates all or part of the 
generated content into an essay submitted for evaluation, without proper 
attribution to the GAI tool. 

 
2. Students are permitted to use GAI tools to generate content that is not submitted to an 

instructor for evaluation.  For example, using GAI tools to study for examinations, tests, 
and quizzes is permitted.  Likewise, on assignments where the use of the Internet is not 
otherwise prohibited by the instructor, GAI tools may be used for learning, studying, and 
brainstorming. 
 
Examples (illustrative only) of permitted conduct: 

• A student types a prompt into a GAI tool and reviews the generated content to 
help them study for a test. 

• A student types a prompt into a GAI tool and uses the generated content to help 
them brainstorm ideas for a term paper or research project. 

 
3. Unless the instructor explicitly states otherwise in advance and in writing, the use of GAI 

tools during any assessment (e.g., examination, test, quiz) whether taken in the 
classroom or elsewhere, constitutes cheating under the Code of Academic Integrity and 
is therefore prohibited.  This prohibition includes assessments for which the use of the 
Internet is otherwise permitted. 
 
Examples (illustrative only) of conduct that is prohibited unless explicitly permitted by the 
instructor: 

• While taking an out-of-class (“take-home”) test on which Internet use is generally 
permitted, a student types a prompt into a GAI tool and incorporates some or all 
of the generated content into their submitted answer. 

• While taking an in-class quiz on which Internet use is generally permitted, a 
student types a prompt into a GAI tool and incorporates some of the ideas 
generated into their submitted answer. 

• Before taking an in-class quiz on which Internet use is generally permitted, a 
student types a prompt into a GAI tool, saves the generated content to a 
document, and pastes some or all of the text into their submitted answer while 
taking the quiz. 

 

Final Thoughts 

 
As we enter this new technological era, the Office of the Provost encourages instructors to 
confer with the Instructional Core if they have questions about best practices for course design, 

https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf
https://studentconduct.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs4831/files/2022-08/code-of-academic-integrity-final-2022-20223-1.pdf


pedagogy, assessment, and with the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities for questions 
about academic integrity.  Further, we appreciate that this technology is evolving, and we will 
update this guidance as circumstances require. 


