AI at Yale | AI at Yale Skip to main content AI at Yale Menu Yale University Clarity Ask this site Search AI at Yale About Tools and Resources Tools and Resources Yale’s AI Tools and Resources AI Research Resource Map AI for Professional Development Guidance News Opportunities Opportunities Opportunities AI Communities of Practice AI Seed Grants 2026 Seed Grants 2025 Events Events Find AI Events Event Series and Trainings Yale University Clarity Ask this site Search AI Seed Grants 2026 CFP The Office of the Provost AI Initiatives calls for proposals for Research Grants up to $100,000 and Workshop Grants up to $20,000. Come to an Infosession (see CFP). Deadline: February 6, 2026 CFP FAQs AI at Yale Try the Clarity Platform Yale’s Clarity platform offers an AI chatbot to support teaching, learning, and research with advanced generative AI. Get Started with Clarity Learn AI Chat Basics Explore techniques for engaging and effective AI chat interactions, designed to enhance your conversational skills with AI systems. Start Learning about AI Envisioning AI at Yale 2025 A trio of ways to foster and share artificial intelligence at Yale. Symposium - May 9 Seed Grants Subscribe for updates Access AI Tools Yale University is providing access to AI tools designed to enhance the academic and professional activities of students, faculty, and staff. Guidance and Resources Review university guidance and best practices for engaging with AI. Chat with this Website Chat with an AI-powered assistant to learn more about AI at Yale. Yale Task Force on AI Learn about the work of the Yale Task Force on AI and its recommendations, which have guided many of the university’s AI-related investments. Subscribe for Updates Receive emails about AI opportunities and more. Subscribe Inform Our Path Forward Provide input on this website and Yale’s AI resources. Submit Feedback AI News & Insights Category Alumni Artificial Intelligence Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences Training Videos Audience Faculty Staff Students Visitors Custom Vocab Yale project winners in Bezos Earth Fund’s AI Grand Challenge for Climate and Nature October 23, 2025 AI Scribes Reduce Physician Burnout and Return Focus to the Patient October 17, 2025 What's in your AI Toolbox? October 6, 2025 When Machines Join the Team September 24, 2025 AI in the Arts: Birds, data, and violins September 22, 2025 Current 1 2 3 ... 6 1 / 6 Next  Accessibility at Yale | Privacy Policy | Copyright © 2025 Yale University. All rights reserved.