Artificial Intelligence and Homework Support Policies - Syllabus Policies - CNDLS Skip to main content Blog open_in_new Contact Us Events search menu close search About keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up CNDLS Blog open_in_new Read our latest posts on teaching, learning, and innovation Contact Us Our Team Project Gallery Explore work that faculty have done in partnership with CNDLS Work at CNDLS open_in_new Priorities keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up Artificial Intelligence Explore how to meaningfully integrate AI into educational practices Experiential Learning Create learning environments that promote deep understanding Inquiry and Discourse Foster conditions for open, respectful discourse and intellectual exploration Programs keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up Apprenticeship in Teaching (AT) Program Teaching skills program designed for students who are teaching or TAing CNDLS AI Lab Initiative to help departments and programs thoughtfully engage with AI The Doyle Program on Engaging Difference open_in_new Program for faculty on bringing conversations about difference into the classroom The Engelhard Project for Connecting Life and Learning open_in_new Program for faculty on incorporating wellbeing activities and perspectives into the classroom Initiative on Pedagogical Uses of AI (IPAI) open_in_new Innovation grants designed to support AI explorations at Georgetown Learning, Equity, Access, and Pedagogy (LEAP) Initiative New program for building and sustaining inclusive learning Teaching, Learning & Innovation Summer Institute (TLISI) open_in_new Annual multi-day institute exploring topics in pedagogy through workshops, keynotes, and more Services keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up For Faculty Applied AI Microcredential Consultations Curriculum Enrichment Grants Digital Learning Days Digital Learning Technology Assistants (DLTA) Program Undergraduate student assistance with integrating technology into courses Funding Opportunities Mid-Semester Teaching Feedback Teaching Communities For Programs & Units Assessment & Analytics Classrooms and Learning Spaces Online Programs Teaching Resources keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up Quick Guides Assessment and Student Feedback Conducting Class Creating Courses and Curricula Designing for Inclusivity Teaching Across Modalities Teaching With Technology Understanding Student Learning Toolkits Artificial Intelligence (AI) Inclusive Pedagogy Inquiry and Discourse Other Resources A-Z Teaching Topics Instructional Continuity open_in_new Syllabus Policies Teaching Tools Blog open_in_new Contact Us Events Home Teaching Resources Syllabus Policies Artificial Intelligence and Homework Support Policies Syllabus Policies Syllabus Policies keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_up Home Georgetown University Policies Artificial Intelligence and Homework Support Policies Attendance & Absences Policies Collaboration Communication Preferences Deadlines and Flexibility Grading Instructional Continuity Office Hours Participation Technology Use Virtual Attendance Artificial Intelligence and Homework Support Policies On this page Integrate AI AI tools limited No AI tools permitted AI text generators, like earlier technological innovations—calculators, Google Translate, spell-check—have asked us to rethink our approach to student tool use and academic honesty. Options range from excluding the use of AI (and using online tools to detect it in student work) to using it as a focus of critical analysis. Note that the official policy of the Georgetown Honor Council is that students using AI-generated text and representing it as their own work constitutes a violation of academic integrity. Below we’ve provided policy options, as well as rationale for using each of them—or not. Feel free to use the language below in your syllabus, and adapt as necessary. Bear in mind that, especially because AI tools are the growing in development, clear policies about their use in your class is crucial for students to know. Integrate AI Students are allowed to use AI tools, with proper citation. Sample Syllabus Policy: “New AI text generation tools may be helpful tools for this course and indeed your future professional lives. Some assignments in this course will require the explicit and intentional use of generative AI. When using and AI generator in your work, including in those assignment, the AI generator used to support your work must be included as a source/citation.” Rationale for Rationale against An interesting way to help students think critically about these new tools; can help them develop metacognitive skills and reflect on their own work. May also reflect professional trends of how AI will be used in the industry or field, better preparing them for their next professional steps. Leverages the fact that students are already using these tools to introduce how to use them effectively, and how to critically think about their output. trust in students. Inclusive to a wide range of learning needs. Assignments will need to be constructed to incorporate AI’s use and may would mainly be relevant only in certain courses (e.g., writing and computer science) and would in other contexts distract from the main points of the content or the specific learning objectives. Check out our Artificial Intelligence Tools page to explore sample assignments that directly integrate AI tools into the process. AI tools limited AI can be used by students at some stages of assignments/work, but not at others. Sample Syllabus Policy: “New AI text generation tools may be able to generate ideas/topics for your assignments, formulate structure for your written work, and can even help you find existing research on the topic. These uses are permitted in this course. The writing and revising, however, must be your own; you may not use AI text generators to write any portion of the paper itself, and using AI tools in this way will be treated as a case of plagiarism and referred to the Honor Council. The AI generator used to support your work must be included as a source/citation.” Rationale for Rationale against Can be useful in courses where you’re more interested in what students do with ideas in a polished final project than in how they get started generating or organizing those ideas. This could also be useful when assignments are conducted during class-time to allow the students to learn directly from the faculty member on how generative AI can and could be used and when its use is not optimal. More complicated than a no-use policy. Could leave room for misinterpretation, where students may not see a clean line between what they should contribute/write and what AI is ‘allowed’ to do for them. No AI tools permitted Students are not allowed to use AI tools in doing course work. Sample Syllabus Policy : “In this course, your ideas and your voice are what matters. Using AI text generation tools at any stage of working on your assignments (idea generation, looking for sources, outlining/organizing, writing, revising, etc.) would make it much harder for me to evaluate and respond helpfully to your work, since I wouldn’t be able to tell what’s coming from you. As such, you’re not permitted to use AI text generating tools at any point when working on your assignments, and I will treat the use of AI text generators as academic dishonesty, and will report the incident to the Honor Council.” Rationale for Rationale against Clear standard that will be hard to misinterpret. Asks students to demonstrate their ability at each stage of the writing process. Takes a potentially useful tool away from students, who might be able to use AI to help them organize ideas. May also be unrealistic given our current ability to detect what is AI-generated. May also be misaligned with future workplace practices. Whether or not AI is allowed in working on other assignments, you might consider bringing it into the classroom as an object of study unto itself. These sample assignments offer demonstrations of how faculty have done this. Back to top arrow_upward Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship 3520 Prospect St. NW #314 Washington, DC 20007 (202) 687-0625 cndls@georgetown.edu About Priorities Programs & Initiatives Services & Support Teaching Resources Contact Us Blog open_in_new Events Work at CNDLS open_in_new