Generative AI for Teaching & Learning News & Blogs | Events Calendar | Contact Opportunities Faculty Certification Programs Active Learning Institute (ALI) Digital Learning Institute (DLI) Inclusive Teaching Institute (ITI) Teaching Experiment Academy (TEA) Institute for Pedagogical Wellness (IPW) Certified Learning Assistants Program Course Design Essentials Program (CDE) Workshops and Professional Development Faculty Commons Coffee Meets Teaching Talk about Teaching with Digital Tools Specs Grading Discussion Group New Faculty New Faculty Teaching Academy Grads & Postdocs Graduate & Post Docs Programs Educational Development Graduate Scholars DTEI Graduate Scholars Pedagogical Scholars Program Pedagogical Liaisons Program TA Professional Development Program (TAPDP) Course Design Essentials Program (CDE) Training Workshops Just-in-Time TA Training Workshops and Professional Development Courses University Studies 390X Certificate in Teaching Excellence Program (CTEP) Grants & Funding UC Irvine IMPACT Program The UC Online Grant Award Teaching Development Conference Grant Pedagogical Scholars Program DTEI Fellowships DTEI Faculty Fellows DTEI Graduate Scholars Workshops and Professional Development Accessibility Teaching Accessibility Guide Digital Accessibility Support & Help Support Consultation and Support Digital Accessibility Support & Help Peer Teaching Consultation Digital and Online Teaching Consultation Pedagogical Consultation Instructional Design Support Learning Assistants Reader Training Full-Scale Course Development Services Resources Instructional Continuity Pedagogy General Teaching Practices TeachAnywhere Online Student Engagement Specifications Grading Specs Grading Discussion Group Teaching Experiment Academy Inclusive Teaching Teaching Accessibility Guide DEI Course Design Rubric Course Development Canvas Sample Template Options for Instructional Videos New Online Course Proposal Questions Syllabus Template Digital Learning Learning Technologies Exam Digitization & Grading A 4-Steps Approach to Remote Teaching Active Learning Anteater Learning Pavilion Generative AI Facilitating Difficult Discussions Peer Observation of Teaching Research Educational Research Initiatives Digital Learning Digital Learning Institute Faculty Consultation Active Learning Active Learning Institute (ALI) Anteater Learning Pavilion (ALP) Pedagogical Wellness FATE Anteater Virtues Faculty Information Student Information Thank a Teacher Events DTEI Happy Hours Workshops and Professional Development UCI Teach Day Celebration of Teaching 2025 Nominations About Our Team DTEI Org Chart Generative AI for Teaching and Learning Rapidly evolving generative AI systems include text-generating AI chat services (e.g., ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude), as well as image-generating, audio, and video AI systems. These machine learning-powered systems are increasingly integrated into our daily communication apps, word-processing software, and technology broadly. As teachers, UCI faculty now need to consider : How might AI impact students’ learning both inside and outside the classroom? [See statements below] Is my AI policy – and the rationale – clear on the syllabus? [ Example ; Digital Learning Lab guidance ] Do my learning objectives and assessments meet the moment? [ DTEI Resource ] UC Irvine faculty and staff have expertise when it comes to teaching in the age of AI. Here are some links to current UCI statements and materials . Depending on the specific pedagogical context and goals, you will see that the attitudes range from the negative – AI distracts from learning – to the positive: certain AI capabilities like tailored tutoring help. This range does not signal thoughtlessness. It signals a real diversity of teaching and learning contexts. In fact, the informed quality of this diversity can be taught to students. OVPTL/CWCC FAQ (originally published in 2023, but still relevant) Digital Learning Lab ZotGPT Academy Humanities Core Composition Program Global Languages & Communication Office of Academic Integrity UC Irvine Libraries Generative AI and Information Literacy Research Guide At the same time, it is important to prepare students for the types of environments they will engage in after graduation. To that end, we have gathered Relevant Statements on AI Tools from Professional and Educational Arenas , which include these example directives: National Institutes of Health [ linked ]. AI-detection technology is used in grant reviews. Researchers should be aware of the risks of AI and are responsible for verifying information, protecting research participants, storing data appropriately, etc. NIH does not consider applications substantially developed by AI to be original ideas of applicants. Peer reviewers are prohibited from using NLPs, LLMs, and other genAI technology for analyzing for peer review. American Psychological Association [ linked ; additional guidance ]. Researchers must disclose and cite any use of AI during the drafting of their manuscripts. AI cannot be named as authors on scholarly publications. Researchers are responsible for verifying information received in AI outputs, providing attribution to the AI tools, and maintaining ethical approaches to using genAI technology. Graphic Arts Guild [ linked ]. The use of AI image generators raises ethical and legal concerns that must be considered, including the unauthorized use of creators’ imagery, confusion on copyrights, ethical concerns in the imitation of artists’ works, and work displacement for visual artists. The negative impact AI image generating platforms will have on visual artists should be recognized, and measures should be taken by the tech sector to prevent the abuse of creators’ works. Corporate and Working World . Job applicants who have an advanced understanding of AI capabilities and limitations may have an advantage. Job applicants who are dependent on AI capabilities have a disadvantage. This document is periodically updated. If you have questions, please contact Waverly Tseng ( waverlyt@uci.edu ). DTEI Events on Generative AI In Spring 2025, DTEI hosted a speed round-style pitch competition in which several faculty shared their ideas on how AI can be leveraged by faculty and departments to make teaching more efficient and effective. Watch the videos below to learn more about innovative uses of AI to enhance teaching! On May 21st, 2025, DTEI hosted a panel with School of Humanities where faculty shared their varied approaches to incorporating or moderating AI in humanities courses, including the strategies employed and perspectives on the potential role of AI in students’ writing development. Watch the recording below to learn about GenAI in Humanities courses. OVPTL AI Advisory Committee The OVPTL AI Advisory Committee was established in Fall 2025 with the mission of providing advice to the Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning and the Associate Dean of the Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation regarding the intersection of generative AI and instructional practices Daniel M. Gross Campus Writing & Communication Coordinator [chair] Brian Sato Associate Dean, Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation Waverly Tseng Educational Technology Specialist, Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation Sarkis Daglian Director of AI, Cloud & Client Solutions, Office of Information Technology Elisa Borowski Assistant Professor, Samueli School of Engineering Jonathan Alexander Chancellor's Professor, School of Humanities Liz Glynn Professor, Claire Trevor School of the Arts Leanne Burke Clinical Professor, Samueli School of Engineering Crista Lopes Chancellor's Professor, Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Bob Pelayo Associate Teaching Professor, School of Physical Sciences Tingting Nian Associate Professor, Paul Merage School of Business Megan Peters Associate Professor, School of Social Sciences Tetyana Vasylyeva Assistant Professor, Joe C. Wen School of Population & Public Health Adrienne Williams Assistant Professor of Teaching, Charlie Dunlop School of Biological Sciences Tom Yeh Assistant Professor of Teaching, Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Segio Gago-Masague Associate Professor of Teaching, Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Council on Educational Policy, UC Irvine Academic Senate Luyi Gui Associate Professor, Paul Merage School of Business Council on Teaching, Learning, and Student Experience, UC Irvine Academic Senate Jean-Daniel Saphores Professor, Samueli School of Engineering Graduate Council, UC Irvine Academic Senate Location The Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation is located on the 3rd floor of the Anteater Instruction and Research Building (AIRB). Address: AIRB 3020, 653 E Peltason Drive, Irvine, CA 92617. Contact Us E mail: dtei@uci.edu Phone: (949) 824-3594 Affiliated Websites Office of the Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning UCI Teach Anywhere OIT and Canvas Support Division of Undergraduate Education UCI Libraries Give to DTEI Support our work! Donate to UCI DTEI Follow Follow Copyright © 2026 | UCI Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation