AI Recommendations for Instructors | Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor | University of Notre Dame Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor Home Search Menu The Honor Code › AI Recommendations for Instructors AI Recommendations for Instructors For more, see ND Learning's website AI for Teaching and Learning , as well as the AI section of their Resource Library . Remind students that ChatGPT and related tools do not meet the standards normally expected of academic or professional work . The lack of citations, the inability to reproduce responses to the same prompt, the difficulty of distinguishing fact from disinformation, the lack of accountability for the ethical and equitable sourcing of information, and outright “hallucinations” are among the known issues. Learning to think and write critically and to use genuine sources of truth and knowledge form the hard but essential core of a liberal arts education, and are the most important skills required for success in a rapidly changing world. Be explicit with students about your expectations regarding the use of ChatGPT and related AI tools for assignments, exams, and in the classroom, and be clear that engaging in unauthorized use of generative AI will be considered a violation of the Honor Code. This includes AI editing tools (such as Grammarly), whose suggestions for revising content are AI-generated and therefore violate a policy that prohibits AI use. Consider adding a specific statement in your syllabus and on Canvas regarding the use of AI tools . The following sample statements may be helpful in crafting statements tailored to the learning goals of specific courses: Before beginning your studies at Notre Dame, you signed the Honor Code pledge, affirming that you would not tolerate or participate in academic dishonesty, and this includes the appropriate use of generative AI tools. For the purposes of this class, you may not engage in unauthorized collaboration to complete any work for the course, and you may not use any generative AI composition or editing tools, unless it is specifically permitted for the assignment. AI composition or editing software (like ChatGPT or Grammarly) may not be used for assignments in this course unless specifically stated in the assignment. Using these tools without my permission puts your academic integrity at risk. When this use has been permitted, the content generated or modified by AI must be properly attributed. The use of AI tools is generally acceptable in this course, but, like any other source, must always be attributed in a manner that can be reproduced by the reader. An example of “reproducible” attribution includes the date accessed, the web address or URL accessed, and a description of the prompt. When using generative AI tools as a source of information, you are responsible for assessing the quality, completeness, and accuracy of the cited information. The use of AI tools (like ChatGPT) is generally acceptable in this course, but, like any other source, must always be attributed in a manner that can be reproduced by the reader. Moreover, such writing aids may be used in different ways at different stages of the creative process. Therefore if you use any of these systems to support your work where assignments specifically allow it, you will be required to describe the uses and process. Remember, when using generative AI tools as a source of information, you are responsible for assessing the quality, completeness, and accuracy of the cited information. Become familiar with ChatGPT and related tools . Engage with colleagues, students, and others in dialogue regarding the use and misuse of generative AI in your academic disciplines and the professions in which your students engage. The technology is changing rapidly with large commercial investments. They will likely become pervasive, ubiquitous, and embedded within the common applications used by students, scholars, and professionals of many types. What this means for the high standards we hold for teaching, scholarship, and academic integrity is a vital conversation to which we invite your thoughts and advice. Use ChatGPT yourself and put your assignments into the system to see how it responds. Become familiar with the tools and how your disciplinary community is understanding them. Impacts of this technology on the disciplines vary as to how fast and seriously they will impact specific professions, academic disciplines, and pedagogical approaches. Also, remember that ChatGPT does not know whether it wrote a particular piece of text; if you ask it if it wrote something, it will often say yes even if the text was not generated by AI. The Honor Code Honor Code Violation Report Educational Outcome Report Reporting Policy University Committee on the Honor Code College / School Honor Code Committees Statement on Generative AI and Academic Integrity (May 2023) AI Recommendations for Instructors Generative AI Policy for Students Policy Update: AI Editing Tools (Fall 2024) Syllabus Statements Contact Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor 217N Main Building Notre Dame , IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-0626 honor@nd.edu © 2026 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook X/Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn