Generative AI Policy for Students | Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor | University of Notre Dame Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor Home Search Menu The Honor Code › Generative AI Policy for Students Generative AI Policy for Students Generative AI offers numerous ways to support your education, such as thinking through ideas, making study guides or practice problems, or providing help with understanding difficult concepts. However, misuse of this technology impedes the University’s mission to develop the gifts and talents that you bring to the ND community. Using it as a substitute for genuine engagement, or to circumvent the necessary intellectual challenges of your coursework, runs counter to the heart of education itself. As you reflect on your own reasons for being here, think carefully about the difference between supplementing your education and replacing it. The purpose of this academic integrity policy is not to be overly punitive, but to ensure that you engage genuinely and deeply with your course material in today's technology-rich learning environment. Of course, AI is changing the world, and you will most likely use it in your chosen field. But the University also wants to ensure that you acquire the knowledge and skills that your assignments are meant to produce, and that you are prepared to apply them after graduation in this new, complex, and ever changing world. With this in mind, remember that representing work that you did not produce as your own, including work generated or materially modified by AI, constitutes academic dishonesty. Use of generative AI in a way that violates an instructor’s articulated policy, or using it to complete coursework in a way not expressly permitted by the faculty member, will be considered a violation of the Honor Code. The University is committed to working continually to help you learn at a depth that prepares you to weather not only this technological pivot, but also the ones that follow. If you have questions about this policy, please contact the Office of Academic Standards at honor@nd.edu. The Honor Code Honor Code Violation Report Educational Outcome Report Reporting Policy University Committee on the Honor Code College / School Honor Code Committees Statement on Generative AI and Academic Integrity (May 2023) AI Recommendations for Instructors Generative AI Policy for Students Policy Update: AI Editing Tools (Fall 2024) Syllabus Statements Contact Undergraduate Academic Code of Honor 217N Main Building Notre Dame , IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-0626 honor@nd.edu © 2026 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook X/Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn