Home - Using Generative AI in Research - Research Guides at University of Southern California Skip to Main Content USC Libraries University of Southern California Research Guides ? Ask Us / FAQS USC Libraries Research Guides Using Generative AI in Research Home Search this Guide Search Using Generative AI in Research This Research Guide provides information on the use of Generative AI in academic papers and research, and provides guidance on the ethical use of Generative AI in an academic setting. Home Introduction to Generative AI Citing Generative AI Using Generative AI in Scholarship and Research AI in Publishing Limitations & Warnings Ethical Considerations Key Takeaways Resources for Students Resources for Faculty Digital Humanities and AI USC Specific Guidelines AI Tools Copyright and Licensed Materials Learning Resources Purpose of this Research Guide This research guide is designed to help students, professors, and researchers understand and navigate the use of generative AI in an academic and research context. It's intended to serve as a starting point for understanding core concepts, opportunities, limitations, and ethical considerations regarding generative AI in academia and research. It should be noted that this field and the implications of using generative AI in higher education and research is rapidly evolving. The USC Libraries strive to keep our research guides current and regularly updated, however, given the nature of this emerging technology and rapid pace of advancement, the information contained in this research guide may become outdated at times. The content of this guide does not represent official USC policy. When in doubt about how and when to use generative AI for assignments or publications, it is best to check with your professor or publisher for specific guidance and policies. AI @ USC AI @ USC Official site for AI tools and resources at USC. Center for AI in Society (Dworak-Peck and Viterbi) Unique collaboration between USC’s Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work and Viterbi School of Engineering, that advances the scholarship and application of AI for the well-being of vulnerable communities. Center for Autonomy and AI (Viterbi) Research center that aims to bring together a faculty team with deep and broad expertise in related areas to solve fundamental research problems that are bottlenecks in development of Intelligent Autonomy technologies. Frontiers of Computing (USC School of Advanced Computing) Establishment of the USC School of Advanced Computing will include a new Silicon Beach campus, already home to the USC Information Sciences Institute and the USC Institute for Creative Technologies under the USC Viterbi School of Engineering. AI for Media & Storytelling (Cinematic Arts and Annenberg) Collaboration experimenting with, inventing, studying, teaching, and debating the power of artificial intelligence for media and storytelling. AI in Medicine Collaboratory (Keck) A pioneering convergent research initiative committed to translating research findings into tangible, patient-centric solutions through collaboration and partnership($$). REAL @ USC-Meta Center Ming Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Daniel J. Epstein Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering at the USC Viterbi School of Engineering together with Meta, have established the USC ECE-ISE Meta Center for Research and Education in AI and Learning. AI Research for Health (ISI and Viterbi) World leader in research and development of advanced information processing, computer and communications technologies. AI4Health is developing novel AI approaches that have the potential to accelerate biomedical research and to improve health outcomes. Center for Excellence in Teaching AI teaching resources with a focus on AI’s impact in the classroom. USC Libraries Introduction to the ethical and responsible use of AI in academia, including resources on AI literacy, workshops, and guidance. Next: Introduction to Generative AI >> Last Updated: Dec 16, 2025 1:26 PM URL: https://libguides.usc.edu/generative-AI Print Page Login to LibApps © University of Southern California USC Digital Accessibility twitter instagram facebook youtube pinterest