AI Guidelines | Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning Skip to main content Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning Menu Yale University Get Help With... Spaces About Us Events News I am a... Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Yale Faculty New Instructor at Yale Staff Member Lifelong Learner Postdoctoral Scholar Search Ask Poorvu Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning Learning Learning Learning Explore Learning Academic Strategies Disability & Neurodiversity Support First-Generation, Low-Income Students Help With Humanities & Social Sciences Help With Language Study Help With STEM STEM Tutoring Learning with Canvas Yale Online Courses History of Online Learning Online Learning Platforms Learning Resource Library Writing Writing Writing Explore Writing Graduate Writing Lab Writing Consultations Workshops and Panels Peer-Review Groups Retreats and All Writes Public Speaking Programs The Graduate Writing Lab Newsletter Yale College Writing Center Residential College Writing Tutors Writing Partner Drop-In Hours Weekly and Fellowship Writing Partners About the Writing Partners Poorvu Center Writing Contest Writing Resources for Undergraduates Writing Resources for Graduate Students Teaching Teaching Teaching Explore Teaching A Guiding Framework for Teaching Teaching Fellowships and Funding McDougal Graduate Teaching Fellows Program Faculty Fellows Teaching Programs and Events Certificate of College Teaching Preparation Faculty Teaching Academy Teaching Consultations and Observations Canvas @ Yale Instructional Tools Teaching with Yale Online History of Online Learning Online Learning Platforms Online Program Process Online Program Policies Teaching Resource Library AI Guidance for Teachers Assessment Assessment Assessment Explore Assessment Educational Program Assessment Consultations & Support Educational Research Workshops on Program Assessment Approaches & Methods Resources on Educational Program Assessment Classroom Assessment How We Assess the Poorvu Center’s Impact Recording Recording Recording Explore Recording Production Types Production Process Online Education Podcasts Lecture Capture Yale University Get Help With... Spaces About Us Events News I am a... Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Yale Faculty New Instructor at Yale Staff Member Lifelong Learner Postdoctoral Scholar Search Ask Poorvu AI Guidelines “Rather than wait to see how AI will develop, we encourage our colleagues across Yale to proactively lead the development of AI by utilizing, critiquing, and examining the technology.” — Report of the Yale Task Force on Artificial Intelligence AI Guidance for Students While the fundamentals of teaching and learning have not changed, we understand that students must be prepared to lead in an AI-infused world. Generative AI may be used to enhance student learning in a variety of ways, ranging from summarization to problem-solving. The Poorvu Center works with students to prioritize their learning while experimenting with available AI tools and understanding how best to use those tools in compliance with individual course policies and guidelines. AI Guidance for Students AI Guidance for Instructors Using a collaborative approach, the Poorvu Center engages with faculty and students in discussions around AI with a focus on learning from each other as we chart a path forward. We work with faculty to help evolve curricula to incorporate discussions around AI into course content and provide resources and guidance to assist in making informed decisions about whether or not to infuse AI in their teaching. AI Guidance for Instructors AI at Yale Yale is positioned to lead in the exploration of AI’s ethical and societal impacts, and the Poorvu Center embraces the opportunity to lead discussions around the use of AI in teaching and learning. The University is committed to investing in AI technology and resources to assist students, faculty, and staff engage with the technology using a critical lens to explore its benefits and limitations. Only then can we make educated and informed decisions about whether or not to incorporate its use in the classroom and beyond. AI at Yale Yale has the opportunity to serve as a model by adapting its curricula to prepare students to lead in advancing and considering the implications of AI. — Report of the Yale Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Additional Resources Learn more about the work being done in the Poorvu Center and across the university around AI. Yale Task Force on Artificial Intelligence AI Literacy Framework Clarity AI Platform Poorvu Center : 301 York St., New Haven, CT 06511 Poorvu North : Kline Tower, 219 Prospect St., New Haven Teaching Studios : 135 College St., New Haven http://poorvucenter.yale.edu AI Guidelines About Us Reserve a Room Discover Upcoming Events Find a Staff Member Facebook Instagram X (formally Twitter) YouTube  Accessibility at Yale | Privacy Policy | Copyright © 2026 Yale University. All rights reserved.