Sample syllabus statements regarding student use of artificial intelligence - Teaching@UW Skip to content Current site All the UW Search scope Current site All the UW Enter search text University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Menu Home Course design Start here Align your course Creating your syllabus Flipped, hybrid, and online teaching Large enrollment courses Developing community agreements Creating a culture of academic integrity AI+Teaching Assessment, rubrics, and grading Teaching during natural and public health crises Inclusion & access Start here Making course materials accessible Universal Design for Learning Making course content inclusive Fostering an inclusive class culture Addressing microaggressions in class Trauma-responsive teaching Addressing specific student needs Engaging students Start here Active and engaged teaching Growth-oriented teaching Relevant teaching Teaching the first day of class Promoting attendance and participation AI+Teaching Confronting misinformation Responding to disruptions in the classroom Addressing distressing current events Office hours / Student hours Particular types of engagement Reflect & iterate Start here Developing a reflective teaching practice UW’s elements of effective teaching Gathering student feedback Self-assessment Peer review and evaluation Teaching & learning scholarship Teaching awards Learn with us Start here Workshops and courses Consultations Reflection and Practice Series Teaching Online 101 AI+Teaching Course Course Redesign Clinic Five for Flourishing Evidence-Based Teaching Fellowship Teaching@UW: Strategies, Resources, and Connections for New UW Faculty Teaching@UW: Strategies for TAs About Teaching@UW network Partnerships and projects In the news Contact Teaching@UW Teaching@UW Course design AI+Teaching Sample syllabus statements regarding student use of artificial intelligence Sample syllabus statements regarding student use of artificial intelligence This page provides some basic syllabus language you can use or adapt to articulate your expectations for whether and/or how students may use AI-based tools in your course. Stating your expectations in the syllabus is important because instructor expectations may differ from course to course. Regardless of what your expectations regarding student use of AI-based tools are, consider including the following elements in your syllabus statement: Use : How and how often will students be permitted to use AI-based tools in this course? What steps should students take to demonstrate or document their use of AI? Why : Why was this policy selected for this course? What do students need to understand about the relationship between your approach to teaching/learning outcomes and the use of AI? Consequences : How will you respond if students do not comply with these expectations? Questions : How should a student reach out if they have questions about this policy? Privacy Reminder : Currently, the only UW-supported generative AI tool is Microsoft Copilot . The UW agreement with Microsoft provides added protections, including enhanced protection of user data and privacy, for all UW users. Instructors are encouraged to explore using Copilot, rather than other non-UW-supported generative AI tools. Sample syllabus language For instructors who allow AI use with some restrictions In this course, students are permitted to use AI-based tools (such as UW’s version of Copilot ) on some assignments. The instructions for each assignment will include information about whether and how you may use AI-based tools to complete the assignment. All sources, including AI tools, must be properly cited. Use of AI in ways that are inconsistent with the parameters above will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation. Please note that AI results can be biased and inaccurate. It is your responsibility to ensure that the information you use from AI is accurate. Additionally, pay attention to the privacy of your data. Many AI tools will incorporate and use any content you share, so be careful not to unintentionally share copyrighted materials, original work, or personal information. Learning how to thoughtfully and strategically use AI-based tools may help you develop your skills, refine your work, and prepare you for your future career. If you have any questions about citation or about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns. For instructors who prohibit AI use Note: Instructors have the right to prohibit any use of AI, but because no technology currently exists that can reliably identify when a student uses AI to complete an assignment, policing student use of AI has the potential to be both time-consuming and unsuccessful. All work submitted for this course must be your own. Any use of generative AI tools when working on assignments is forbidden. Use of generative AI will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation The assignments in this class have been designed to challenge you to develop creativity, critical-thinking, and problem-solving skills. Using AI technology will limit your capacity to develop these skills and to meet the learning goals of this course. If you have any questions about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns. For instructors who allow AI use without restriction Students in this course are encouraged to explore the use of AI-based tools (such as UW’s version of Copilot ) when completing assignments. All sources, including AI tools, must be properly cited. Use of AI without proper citation will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation. Please note that AI results can be biased and inaccurate. It is your responsibility to ensure that the information you use from AI is accurate. Additionally, pay attention to the privacy of your data. Many AI tools will incorporate and use any content you share, so be careful not to unintentionally share copyrighted materials, original work, or personal information. Learning how to thoughtfully and strategically use AI-based tools may help you develop your skills, refine your work, and prepare you for your future career. If you have any questions about citation or about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns. Home AI+Teaching Ethical and social issues related to AI Sample syllabus statements regarding student use of artificial intelligence University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA