Using Generative AI Reflectively and Responsibly in Teaching and Learning - UCLA Teaching & Learning Center Skip to content Our Teaching Resource Index offers a sortable overview of all our bulletins, guides, and other resources. You can also find Timely Teaching Resources that address common teaching topics. Teaching & Learning Center Newsletter Signup Campus Partners Donate About Us Meet Our Team Special Initiatives Committees Professors of Teaching Programs 10+10 Pop-up Series Collegium of University Teaching Fellows DaD Faculty Fellows Distinguished Teaching Awards Holistic Evaluation of Teaching Instructor Wellbeing Initiative Student Experience Project (SEP) TAC Program TA Training Requirements Resources Teaching Resource Index AI in Teaching and Learning Educational Innovation Grants Instructional Design Showcase Maintaining Instructional Continuity Making Your Course Accessible Teaching Guides Timely Teaching Resources Preparing to Teach Services Consultations Instructional Design Media Production Senior Survey Student Experiences of Teaching (SET) Test Scoring Service Newsroom Events Scholarly Teaching Seminars Night to Honor Teaching TA & Postdoc Teaching Conference New Instructor Teaching Institute Events Calendar About Us Meet Our Team Special Initiatives Committees Professors of Teaching Programs 10+10 Pop-up Series Collegium of University Teaching Fellows DaD Faculty Fellows Distinguished Teaching Awards Holistic Evaluation of Teaching Instructor Wellbeing Initiative Student Experience Project (SEP) TAC Program TA Training Requirements Resources Teaching Resource Index AI in Teaching and Learning Educational Innovation Grants Instructional Design Showcase Maintaining Instructional Continuity Making Your Course Accessible Teaching Guides Timely Teaching Resources Preparing to Teach Services Consultations Instructional Design Media Production Senior Survey Student Experiences of Teaching (SET) Test Scoring Service Newsroom Events Scholarly Teaching Seminars Night to Honor Teaching TA & Postdoc Teaching Conference New Instructor Teaching Institute Events Calendar Home / Resources / Teaching Guides / Using Generative AI Reflectively and Responsibly in Teaching and Learning Using Generative AI Reflectively and Responsibly in Teaching and Learning April 2025 What? Artificial intelligence (AI) refers to the development of computer systems that can perform tasks typically requiring human intellectual activities such as reasoning, learning, problem-solving, perception, and language understanding. AI models “learn to make a prediction based on data,” such as “predict[ing] whether a certain X-ray shows signs of a tumor or if a particular borrower is likely to default on a loan” (Zewe, 2023, Introductory section). Generative AI (GenAI) is a subset of artificial intelligence focused on creating new data, rather than making predictions based on existing data. This can take the form of text, images, code, music, or videos. It uses techniques like deep learning and neural networks to generate original outputs that resemble the training data, often producing creative and novel results (Zewe, 2023). Tools Related to GenAI GenAI tools are rapidly evolving, and the TLC will update this resource as developments occur. Some examples of GenAI tools currently available are OpenAI’s ChatGPT and DALL-E, Microsoft’s Copilot, Google’s Gemini, and Claude. GenAI has also been integrated into Google Searches in the form of AI Overviews (Reid, 2024), as well as into numerous other tools and software (e.g., Grammarly). As GenAI continues to grow and evolve, its widespread use by students and opportunities for use in teaching and learning make it critical for instructors to reflect on how it affects the courses they teach. Resources that explain How GenAI Works How AI chatbots like ChatGPT or Bard work – visual explainer UCLA Library WI+RE’s Introduction to AI Chatbots Why? In this section, you will learn why it’s important to know about GenAI, its widespread use, students’ perceptions of GenAI tools, and relevance to teaching and learning — including possibilities and drawbacks of the technology. Growing use of GenAI tools Generative AI usage is widespread and growing. Take the example of ChatGPT: in its first five days, a million people signed up to use it, and it was reported to have hit 100 million weekly users a year after it was launched (Thorne, 2023). ChatGPT is reported to have 464 million monthly users as of November 2024 (Duarte, 2025). Given GenAI’s growth and its potential to support research, teaching, and administrative operations at UCLA, the university is investing in tools for the community to use, and individuals across campus have started exploring and leveraging these tools in innovative ways. You can learn more about the licenses available for UCLA faculty, staff, and students at Available GenAI Tools . A majority of UCLA students are using GenAI tools to various degrees, and for various purposes. Based on the University of California Undergraduate Experience Survey (UCUES) data from 2024, 67% of students reported using GenAI tools at some point during the academic year, with more than half of students surveyed reporting that they used it to “brainstorm for a writing project or a presentation,” and “research a topic” (UCUES, 2024). A majority of students surveyed (61%) agree or strongly agree that they understand how GenAI can enhance their learning; at the same time, 78% agree or strongly agree that they understand how the use of GenAI can be detrimental to their learning (UCUES, 2024). Possibilities of GenAI Potential in teaching and learning Instructors who are interested in incorporating GenAI into teaching and learning may see its potential benefits in making personalized learning feasible and scalable, as well as how the technology may support them in their teaching, relieving them of repetitive tasks (Hammond, 2024). There is potential for instructional content to be tailored to individual students’ needs, and for students to interact with GenAI chatbots and tutors, which may provide more automated grading and feedback (The role of AI, 2024). Importance to students’ career readiness Education leaders argue that because their future careers will require proficiency with the technology, universities need to teach students how to use GenAI tools effectively and responsibly (Schroeder, 2024). Drawbacks of GenAI Biased and inaccurate output As shared during the UCLA Virtual Town Hall: What is ChatGPT and How Does it Relate to UCLA’s Academic Mission , there are concerns about the ethics and practices around GenAI tools. As discussed by Noble (2018), algorithms can and do replicate and produce biased, racist, and sexist outputs, along with incorrect and/or misleading information. These technologies are not infallible, and their accuracy is subject to a variety of factors, some listed below: Prone to fill in replies with incorrect data if there is not enough information available on a subject. Lack the ability to understand the context of a particular situation, which can result in inaccurate outputs. Large, uncurated datasets scraped from the internet are full of biased data that then informs the models. Data is collected from the past, and tends to have a regressive bias that fails to reflect the progress of social movements. Environmental concerns Another serious concern about GenAI tools relates to their environmental impact. Data centers for GenAI tools require huge amounts of raw materials, including rare earth elements, and produce electronic waste containing mercury and lead (AI has an environmental problem, 2024). Data centers also use and will continue to use massive amounts of water, with a projected water usage of 6.6 billion cubic meters by 2027 (Gordon, 2024). It is estimated that the carbon footprint of a single GenAI query is four to five times higher than using a search engine (Stokel-Walker, 2023); this does not take into account the energy consumed and CO 2 produced to create each GenAI model. How? Before discussing GenAI tools with your students, creating a GenAI policy for your course, or deciding whether to implement tools in your class, consider taking some time to reflect on your views, interest in, and comfort level with GenAI. The UC Instructional Design & Faculty Support Community of Practice’s AI Working Group created a chart with guiding questions for instructors relating to AI: AI Faculty Consultation Chart . The chart asks you to reflect on your experience with GenAI, its relevance to your course, your ethical concerns, and how and where you might rethink your course to incorporate GenAI. Consider working through these questions, and if you have further questions or concerns, you can get in touch with an instructional designer to discuss with you. Create and communicate GenAI policies Surveys and Discussions Consider utilizing the questions on AI from the University of California Undergraduate Experience Survey in a survey with your students, or holding a discussion with your class exploring these topics. Learning about what your students know about GenAI, and how they currently use it, can inform whether you integrate these tools into your teaching, and can shape your course policies on GenAI tool use. We have created a sample survey of these UCUES questions, which you can find in Canvas Commons and import into your course. Filter Canvas Commons results for resources shared with the University of California, Los Angeles, and search for “GenAI Student Survey.” Syllabus Statements Make your course’s GenAI policy clear in your syllabus. Consider forming a policy in collaboration with your students at the beginning of the quarter, which can foster a sense of belonging among students in your course (see Preparing to Teach: Fostering and Sustaining Student Belonging Throughout the Term for more information on student belonging). Below are three example syllabus statements adapted from UIC’s AI Writing Tools guide that instructors could include in their syllabus, as well as guiding questions to help you determine what to include in your AI statement. Not permitting AI in class The use of AI writing tools (including, but not limited to, ChatGPT) is not permitted in this course. Students who use these tools for class assignments undermine the goals and learning objectives for this course, reducing the effectiveness of instruction. Any confirmed use of AI writing tools will be treated as academic dishonesty (see the UCLA Academic Integrity statement for more information). Limited use of AI in class with citation The recent advances in AI technology are already transforming the ways humans communicate. In order to prepare students for an AI-infused world, the use of AI writing tools in this class is permitted in some ways. Students are encouraged to use AI writing tools (such as ChatGPT) to generate ideas for their writing and coursework in this class; however, it is expected that all AI-generated content be reviewed, edited, and verified for accuracy before submission. Please note that you need to cite the specific AI writing tool as a source if you present any significant amount (i.e., more than one sentence) of minimally edited AI-generated text as your own. Please review the APA or MLA guidelines for citing generative AI writing tools. Permitting AI in class The recent advances in AI technology are already transforming the ways humans communicate. In order to prepare students for AI-assisted work, the use of AI writing tools is permitted in this course with no restrictions. Note that this policy may be revised in light of other policies and novel technological developments in AI tools. Additional examples There are many additional examples from various institutions in this crowdsourced document: Syllabi Policies for AI Generative Tools . You can read through other educators’ submissions for syllabus statements, use them in your syllabus, and submit your own policy. Plagiarism concerns If you have concerns about a student using GenAI tools to plagiarize work in your class, please follow the Guidance for Addressing Suspected AI Misconduct . You can also refer to established publications’ statements on AI and authorship. Some examples are Science ’s policy on Image and Text Integrity , Nature ’s policy on Artificial Intelligence (AI) , the Modern Language Association’s Policy on Generative AI , and APA Journals policy on generative AI: Additional guidance . Discuss GenAI with your students Discuss the potential Many UCLA students will go on to become leaders at organizations that use and/or develop new AI technologies. Have conversations with your students about how these tools will support advancements in their field (medicine, science, art, music, humanities, health, and more). Prepare students for the future when they will work and interact with GenAI This technology is likely to develop and become embedded in many parts of daily life. Prepare students to thoughtfully engage, co-create, be curious, and know how to interact with other technological developments as they occur. Seize the opportunity to center the importance of critical thinking and digital literacy When discussing GenAI, emphasize the importance of digital literacy, research, and writing skills with students. Universities can help guide students through many types of literacy, including digital media and AI literacy. Connect students to library sources for research and writing. In addition, the library is creating materials for students to learn more about and be able to better evaluate AI tools and their output. WI+RE has created a tutorial to help students understand more about GenAI tools and how they work: WI+RE’s Introduction to AI Chatbots . The research guide Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) Tools and Academic Use also contains many helpful resources. Talk with your students about ethical issues and limitations Facilitate discussions with your students about the impacts of spreading disinformation or biased information, lack of regulation of companies that develop these technologies, and other dangers. While students will likely continue to use GenAI tools, it is crucial that the UCLA community has a shared understanding of both dangers and opportunities. See the above section on Drawbacks of GenAI for resources that you can share. Ensure equity and accessibility concerns are addressed As with any emerging technology, GenAI tools may not always be accessible to individuals with disabilities. Open a conversation with the Center for Accessible Education (CAE) for ideas about exploring accessible alternatives. Faculty are encouraged to use this suggested syllabus statement to direct a student toward CAE to discuss their options for accommodations and support. Requests for support should be directed to caeintake@saonet.ucla.edu or the student’s listed Disability Specialist on their accommodation letter. Some GenAI tools and subscriptions come at a cost, so continuing to revisit your learning goals and activities with respect to access is a critical equity issue. Using UCLA’s available GenAI tools ensures that the technology does not come at a cost to students. Note that only students 18 and older can use these tools with UCLA’s licenses. Citing this Guide UCLA Teaching and Learning Center (TLC). (2025). Using Generative AI Reflectively and Responsibly in Teaching and Learning . Teaching and Learning Center at the University of California, Los Angeles. Retrieved [today’s date]. Additional Resources UCLA Resources This guide builds on a teaching guide created by CEILS in collaboration with previous campus teaching and learning organizations. UCLA Academic Senate, Teaching Guidance for ChatGPT and Related AI Developments UCLA HumTech, AI Toolkit for the Humanities Classroom UCLA ITS, Generative AI Other Resources UC Berkeley, AI in Teaching & Learning Overview UC Davis, GenA I UC Davis, Generative AI (GenAI) Student Survey References Duarte, F. (2025, January 6). Number of ChatGPT Users (Jan 2025) . Exploding Topics. https://explodingtopics.com/blog/chatgpt-users#how-many Gordon, C. (2024, March 7). AI Is Accelerating the Loss of Our Scarcest Natural Resource: Water . Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/cindygordon/2024/02/25/ai-is-accelerating-the-loss-of-our-scarcest-natural-resource-water/ Hammond, K. (2024, October 14). Embracing AI for Personalized Learning . Center for Advancing Safety of Machine Intelligence. https://casmi.northwestern.edu/news/articles/2024/embracing-ai-for-personalized-learning.html Noble, Safiya Umoja. (2018). Algorithms of Oppression: How Search Engines Reinforce Racism . NYU Press. Reid, L. (2024, May 14). Generative AI in Search: Let Google do the searching for you . The Keyword, Google. https://blog.google/products/search/generative-ai-google-search-may-2024/ Schroeder, R. (2024, July 31). Our Responsibility to Teach AI to Students . https://www.insidehighered.com/opinion/blogs/online-trending-now/2024/07/31/our-responsibility-teach-ai-students Stapleton-Corcoran, E. and Horton, P. (2023, May 22). AI Writing Tools . Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence at the University of Illinois Chicago. https://teaching.uic.edu/resources/teaching-guides/digital-learning/ai-writing-tools/ Stokel-Walker, C. (2023, February 10). The Generative AI Race Has a Dirty Secret . Wired. https://www.wired.com/story/the-generative-ai-search-race-has-a-dirty-secret/ University of Iowa Education Blog. (2024, August 27). The role of AI in modern education . https://onlineprograms.education.uiowa.edu/blog/role-of-ai-in-modern-education#:~:text=AI%20in%20education%20offers%20transformative,and%20equity%20remain%20significant%20challenges . Thorne, E. (2023, November 6). ChatGPT hits 100M weekly users . Linkedin. https://www.linkedin.com/news/story/chatgpt-hits-100m-weekly-users-5808204/ UCUES Data Tables https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/about-us/information-center/university-california-undergraduate-experience-surve y- ucues-data-tables-2024 UN Environment Programme. (2024, September 21). AI has an environmental problem. Here’s what the world can do about that. https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/ai-has-environmental-problem-heres-what-world-can-do-about University of Iowa Education Blog.(2024, August 27). The role of AI in modern education . https://onlineprograms.education.uiowa.edu/blog/role-of-ai-in-modern-education#:~:text=AI%20in%20education%20offers%20transformative,and%20equity%20remain%20significant%20challenges Zewe, A. (2023, November 9). Explained: Generative AI . MIT News. https://news.mit.edu/2023/explained-generative-ai-1109 Teaching & Learning Center 160 Powell Library, BOX 956953 Los Angeles, CA 90095-6953 Linkedin Instagram ©2026 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Facebook Instagram Linkedin X-twitter Youtube Threads Bruin Learn Center of Excellence (CoE) CEILS SSCERT HumTech Powell Library Dialogue Across Difference UCLA Teaching & Learning Center Search About Us Meet Our Team Special Initiatives Committees Professors of Teaching Programs 10+10 Pop-up Series Collegium of University Teaching Fellows DaD Faculty Fellows Distinguished Teaching Awards Holistic Evaluation of Teaching Instructor Wellbeing Initiative Student Experience Project (SEP) TAC Program TA Training Requirements Resources Teaching Resource Index AI in Teaching and Learning Educational Innovation Grants Instructional Design Showcase Maintaining Instructional Continuity Making Your Course Accessible Teaching Guides Timely Teaching Resources Preparing to Teach Services Consultations Instructional Design Media Production Senior Survey Student Experiences of Teaching (SET) Test Scoring Service Newsroom Events Scholarly Teaching Seminars Night to Honor Teaching TA & Postdoc Teaching Conference New Instructor Teaching Institute Events Calendar Newsletter Signup Request information Login Search Search Receive the latest news Get TLC Updates The TLC offers monthly and quarterly updates highlighting events, resources, and other opportunities to foster teaching excellence on campus. Sign up to receive communications. Email Address First Name Last Name Department Job Title subscribe