Creating your course policy on AI | Teaching Commons Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University (link is external) Stanford Teaching Commons Search this site Submit Search Menu Articles Supporting Students Inclusive Support Accessibility Support Resources for Students Professional Development Workshops & Programs Request a workshop Do-it-yourself Workshop Kits Exploring Pedagogic Uses of AI Workshop Kit Analyzing the Implications of AI Workshop Kit Creating an AI Course Policy Workshop Kit Integrating AI into Assignments Workshop Kit Join A Community Get Feedback On Teaching Technology Tech-enhanced Teaching Tech Support Academic Technology Tools List Policy & Guidance Teaching Guides Foundations of Course Design Theory to Practice TEACH Framework Teacher-centered vs. Student-centered course design Technology Integration Framework Instructional Design Framework Defining Course Modalities Course Planning Creating Learning Outcomes Design Principles for Canvas TAs and the Teaching Team Optimizing the Syllabus Using Academic Technologies Equipment Loans and Support Feedback and Assessment Formative Assessment and Feedback Summative Assessment and Feedback Academic Honesty and Stanford's Honor Code Learning Activities Increasing Student Engagement Growth Mindset and Enhanced Learning Improving Teaching Effectiveness Gathering Student Feedback Course Evaluations and End-term Student Feedback Professional Development Opportunities Inclusive Teaching Guide Getting Started with Inclusive Teaching Overview of Inclusive Teaching Practices Ten Strategies to Promote Student Flourishing What I Wish My Professor Knew Planning an Inclusive Course Building an Inclusive Syllabus Designing an Accessible Course Equity and Belonging in STEM Lab Courses Supporting Diverse Learners Setting Norms and Commitments Building Inclusive Community Student Support Services Gender Inclusivity Practices Supporting Students with Disabilities Inclusive Learning Activities Inclusive and Equitable Discussions Disruption Preparation Guide General Guidance for Disruption Preparation The Resilient Syllabus Preparing for Student Absences Guidance for Instructor and TA Absences Addressing Disruptive Social and Political Events Handling Classroom Disruption Cancellation of Class Meetings Blended and Hybrid Teaching Guide Getting Started with Blended and Hybrid Teaching Top Teaching Practices to Continue on Campus Frameworks for Blended and Hybrid Teaching What is Blended Teaching? What is a Hybrid Course? Flipped Classroom Pedagogy Tools and Techniques for Blended and Hybrid Teaching Leverage Canvas for Blended and Hybrid Teaching Academic Technology in the Classroom Remote Guest Speakers Recording Course Meetings Remote Teaching Guide Getting Started Online Three Simple Models for Going Online Ten Promising Practices for Effective Online Teaching Solve Common Online Teaching Problems Online Feedback and Assessment Administering Remote Exams Virtual Office Hours Online Learning Activities Rethinking Online Assignments Engaging Online Activities Balancing Synchronous and Asynchronous Activities Delivering Content Online Live Online Lectures Pre-recorded Instructional Video Organizing Content in Canvas Artificial Intelligence Teaching Guide Understanding AI Literacy Defining AI and chatbots Exploring the pedagogical uses of AI chatbots Analyzing the implications of AI for your course Creating your course policy on AI Integrating AI into assignments Events Events Home Symposium in Autumn Autumn 25-26 Teaching Commons Symposium Autumn 24-25 Teaching Commons Symposium Autumn 23-24 TEACH Symposium Fall 22-23 TEACH Symposium Winter 21-22 TEACH Symposium U-Symposium in Winter Winter 23-24 TEACH U-Symposium Winter 22-23 TEACH U-Symposium Conference in Spring 2025 Teaching Commons Conference Call for Proposals Workshops and Lightning Talks 2024 Teaching Commons Conference Workshops and Lightning Talks Plenary Speakers 2023 TEACH Conference Call for Proposals Workshops and Lightning Talks Plenary Speakers 2022 TEACH Conference Concurrent Sessions Conference Call for Proposals Keynote and Plenary Bios Media Library About About Us Contribute your content Creating your course policy on AI Main navigation Skip Secondary Navigation Secondary Navigation Foundations of Course Design Inclusive Teaching Guide Disruption Preparation Guide Blended and Hybrid Teaching Guide Remote Teaching Guide Artificial Intelligence Teaching Guide Understanding AI Literacy Defining AI and chatbots Exploring the pedagogical uses of AI chatbots Analyzing the implications of AI for your course Creating your course policy on AI Integrating AI into assignments Main content start Here we offer example syllabus statements, suggestions for what to include, and sample sentences that you might use as you think through your own course policy on AI and begin writing a statement to put in your syllabus. Analyzing the implications of AI chatbots Key points from the previous module Academic integrity, student success, and workload balance represent three important areas of focus regarding the impact of AI chatbots. The Office of Community Standards has stated that absent a clear statement from the instructors, the use of generative AI will be treated the same as assistance from another person. Evaluate your own courses carefully when thinking about if and how you would use AI chatbots and how you would direct students to use them. Go to the previous module Outcomes for this module Here we aim to guide you through developing a draft course policy on AI use that you can include in your syllabi. After completing this module, you should be able to: Reflect on the purpose(s) of an AI policy in your course syllabi. Describe some options for AI policy syllabus statements. Create an AI policy for your course that takes into consideration academic integrity, student success, and workload balance. Thinking about your syllabus A syllabus serves many purposes and can have multiple audiences depending on how and when it is used. Let's focus on the syllabus as a way to communicate to students the most important aspects and learning goals of your course. Before you begin to write your course policy on AI, consider the tone and voice of your syllabus, course policies already in place, and so on. We offer the prompt "What is one complexity about your course that could be clarified or improved for your students?" that you can respond to in the poll below. Explore example syllabi statements Consider these example syllabi statements on AI use: Classroom Policies for AI Generative Tools , created by Lance Eaton Sample text for syllabi , from the Sentient Syllabus Project Sample language from the AI Guidance & FAQs web page from the Harvard Office of Undergraduate Education (at the end of the page) Reflection prompt What important conversations do you want to have with your students about AI and learning in your course? What to include in your AI course policy statement An effective syllabus is designed to motivate learning, define learning goals, explain the structure of the course, offer support, and so on—which also applies to any statements about AI. Many of the strategies for writing effective syllabi in general, such as using student-centered language, aiming for transparency and precision, providing examples, and using the syllabus as a starting point for conversations with students, would apply here as well (Gannon, 2023). Remember that some students may not be aware of campus policies or have varying degrees of preparation for navigating such issues, so they would likely benefit from a clear and comprehensive statement about AI use in your course. Consider the following when developing your AI course policy: What is the policy and what tools does it apply to specifically? When does it apply? What conditions or contexts allow or preclude the use of AI? What processes and consequences result from non-compliance? What rationale and reasoning guide this policy? How do you provide support to students in relation to this policy? How does the policy show support for student well-being? Ideas to get started Below we provide options for ideas and wordings that you might use to begin crafting your own course policy. The following worksheet also contains more sample language and a chatbot prompt to help you refine your policy statement. Worksheet for creating your AI course policy (129.75 KB) Type of policy Yes, always allowed Yes, but... No, but... No, never allowed Specific tools it applies to AI chatbots (such as ChatGPT, Google Bard, Claude, Bing Chat) AI image generators (such as DALL-E, Midjourney, Stable Diffusion, Adobe Firefly) AI code generators (such as CoPilot, Tabnine, Cody) AI audio or music generators (such as Amper, AIVA, Soundful) Conditions and contexts Only for specific assignments Only specified AI tools Only when students openly explain how and why they used AI tools Only when students and the teaching team consent to having their data entered into AI tools Only when used for purposes that are not private, sensitive, or high-risk Only with supervision during class, section, or office hours Only after students have gained skills for using chatbots appropriately Only by request and in consultation with the instructor or teaching team Only with your own data. Do not enter private, sensitive, or copyrighted data from others into AI tools without their consent. Only prohibited for graded assignments; for non-graded assignments, students may use chatbots Must cite the AI tools and prompts they use Rationales Yes, always because... "The students in this course have strong learning skills and have shown themselves to be responsible, effective, self-directed learners." "I’ve designed robust assessments and learning activities in this course that have value regardless of the use of chatbots." "The use of chatbots aligns with the goals of the course in a way that enhances learning." "I consider learning to use chatbots an important skill in the discipline." "Students are informed about AI, its risks and benefits, and can decide for themselves if and how they would use AI tools." Yes, but... because... "Students need to first develop their skills to demonstrate they can use chatbots effectively and responsibly." "Chatbots would enhance learning in certain specific situations but could be a detriment to learning outside of those situations." "The teaching team only has enough resources to support students working with chatbots in limited ways." "Students first need to understand issues around privacy and data security and consent to using a chatbot." No, but... because... "It could enhance learning for certain students in unique circumstances but otherwise would likely inhibit learning." "It depends on the individual student's goals, situation, skills, and needs that need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis." "The teaching team only has enough resources to support a limited number of students with the greatest need to use chatbots for learning." "As chatbots rapidly evolve, the teaching team needs more time to adapt the course to properly support students." "Content in this course is private, sensitive, or copyrighted, and should only be entered into a chatbot under certain circumstances." No, never because... "The teaching team considers chatbots incompatible with the course goals and likely a detriment to student learning." "Content in this course is private, sensitive, or copyrighted and should never be entered into a chatbot." Process "All students should contact the teaching team if they have questions about anything in this policy." "All students must attend at least one office hour session to discuss using AI tools." "Students must consent to and follow class community agreements about responsible use of AI." "Student work that does not include proper citation of chatbot use..." Consequences "If a student is suspected of or reported for not following this policy, the teaching team will consult with the Office of Community Standards in accordance with the student accountability process ." Support resources "My course policy aligns with guidance from the Office of Community Standards . Please familiarize yourself with their policy, as it applies to all courses, not just this one." "If you have any questions, please talk to me or someone from the teaching team. The best way to contact us is..." "All students and teaching team members should follow the recommendations on privacy, data security, and responsible use of AI tools described on University IT's Responsible AI at Stanford webpage." "For the specified assignments where AI tools are allowed, we will go over in class how to access and use them." "AI use is not required and is entirely optional. Equivalent alternatives are provided for all students whether they choose to use AI tools or not." Inclusive language "If you as a student are struggling and feeling too much pressure in this course, please don't resort to chatbots as a shortcut to completing assignments. Many Stanford students feel stressed and pressured. It is completely natural, as this is a challenging course and the university can be a high-pressure environment. But there are a lot of support resources available to you, and I believe that you can succeed here. Please contact me anytime and let's talk about it. I am open to extending due dates or adjusting the assignments to fit your situation. I will work with you to support your success in this course!" "We recognize that you may have concerns around privacy and security, or have ethical or other reasons why you do not want to use AI tools in this class. This is completely understandable and we respect your choices. I and the teaching team are here to help you succeed in this course. Please email, visit office hours, or speak to me at any time so we can help you. I can accommodate or adapt course assignments for most students' situations. In the instances where I cannot, I can connect you to other campus resources that can help you." Assess and reinforce your learning We offer this activity for you to self-assess and reflect on what you learned in this module. Stanford affiliates Go to the Stanford-only version of this activity Use your Stanford-provided Google account to respond. You have the option of receiving an email summary of your responses After submitting your responses, you will have the option to view the anonymized responses of other Stanford community members by clicking Show previous responses . Non-Stanford users Complete the activity embedded below. You have the option of receiving an email summary of your responses. Your responses will only be seen by the creators of these modules. Loading… Learn more How to Cite ChatGPT , APA Style CTL Syllabus Template , Stanford Center for Teaching and Learning Should You Add an AI Policy to Your Syllabus? , Chronicle of Higher Education The Sentient Syllabus Project , Sentient Syllabus Project Works cited AI Guidance & FAQs . (n.d.). Harvard Office of Undergraduate Education. Retrieved July 26, 2023, from https://oue.fas.harvard.edu/ai-guidance CTL Syllabus Template | Center for Teaching and Learning . (n.d.). Retrieved July 28, 2023, from https://ctl.stanford.edu/syllabus-template Eaton, L. (n.d.). Classroom Policies for AI Generative Tools—Google Docs . Retrieved July 28, 2023, from https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RMVwzjc1o0Mi8Blw_-JUTcXv02b2WRH86vw7mi16W3U/edit Gannon, K. (2023, July 31). Advice | Should You Add an AI Policy to Your Syllabus? The Chronicle of Higher Education. https://www.chronicle.com/article/should-you-add-an-ai-policy-to-your-syllabus McAdoo, T. (2023, April 7). How to cite ChatGPT . Https://Apastyle.Apa.Org. https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/how-to-cite-chatgpt Syllabus Resources . (n.d.). Google Docs. Retrieved July 31, 2023, from https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O1_uUvF8OYbleru5QyjjuNP_On7h5vaVQC2GaSQ315U/edit?usp=sharing Integrating AI chatbots into assignments Preview of the next module Strategies and perspectives on integrating AI tools into assignments and activities used to assess student learning. Go to the next module Learning together with others can deepen the learning experience. We encourage you to organize your colleagues to complete these modules together or facilitate a workshop using our Do-it-yourself Workshop Kits on AI in education. The Center for Teaching and Learning also coordinates the AI Meets Education at Stanford (AIMES) initiative. AIMES resources and programs include the AIMES Library of Examples, containing exemplary learning objects from Stanford instructors, and the Critical AI Literacy for Instructors self-paced Canvas course. If you have any questions, contact us at TeachingCommons@stanford.edu . This guide is licensed under Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 (attribution, non-commercial, share-alike) and should be attributed to Stanford Teaching Commons. Back to Top Stanford Teaching Commons Web Login Address Stanford University 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford , CA 94305 United States Report a website error Contribute your content TeachingCommons@stanford.edu Teaching Commons Partners Center for Teaching and Learning Innovation and Technology, GSE Learning Technologies and Spaces Stanford Introductory Seminars Digital Education Evaluation & Instructional Development, Stanford Medicine Educational Technology, Stanford Medicine Teaching and Learning Hub, GSB Program in Writing and Rhetoric Stanford University (link is external) Stanford Home (link is external) Maps & Directions (link is external) Search Stanford (link is external) Emergency Info (link is external) Terms of Use (link is external) Privacy (link is external) Copyright (link is external) Trademarks (link is external) Non-Discrimination (link is external) Accessibility (link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.