Course Policies on Generative AI Use - Teaching and Learning Hub Skip to content Stanford University For immediate technical assistance during class time, call the GSB classroom support hotline: 1(650)736-3342 Or submit a support ticket to Stanford Service-Now Teaching Resources Faculty Insights Events News About Contact Toggle website search Menu Close Teaching Resources Faculty Insights Events News About Contact Toggle website search WINTER CLOSE REMINDER – The Teaching and Learning Hub will shut down in compliance with Stanford’s university-wide Winter Close from Monday, December 22, 2025, through Friday, January 2, 2026. Regular operations will resume on Monday, January 5, 2026. More Details Course Policies on Generative AI Use Engaging Students 9 Pre-recording Videos to Share with Your Students Handout: Zoom Instructions for Remote Guest Speakers Faculty Tips: Teaching with Presence and Connection Tools and Technology Asynchronous Course Discussions Conducting Role-Plays Using Polls in the GSB Classroom Building Classroom Community Leading Effective Discussions Feedback 1 Collecting Mid-quarter Student Feedback Resources for Remote Teaching 1 Teaching in the Virtual Classroom Open Discourse 6 Teaching During an Election Season Handling Sensitive Topics Writing Content Notices for Sensitive Content GSB Students on Open Discourse: May 24, 2023 Panel Highlights Engaging with Difference in Course Content GSB Faculty on Open Discourse and Participation: April 13, 2022 Panel Highlights Teaching and AI 6 GSB Student Voices Panel on Exploring AI: Event Highlights Faculty Showcase on AI and Teaching Starting Small with AI in the Classroom Teaching in the AI Era Course Policies on Generative AI Use Quick Start Guide to AI and Teaching Home Docs Teaching and AI Teaching and AI Course Policies on Generative AI Use updated on December 11, 2025 Table of contents GSB Guidelines on Classroom AI Use GSB Policy Tips for Setting Your Approach to AI Use Citing Generative AI Use Template Syllabus Statements for Generative AI Use Additional Resources GSB Guidelines on Classroom AI Use GSB Policy MBA/MSx courses: Instructors may not ban student use of AI tools for take-home coursework , including assignments and exams. Instructors may choose whether to allow student use of AI tools for in-class work , including exams. Except for in-class exams, students should be allowed to use AI tools in cases where they are able to use the internet and electronic devices. In-class assignments for which electronic devices are prohibited inherently also prohibit use of the internet, AI tools, tablets, laptops, calculators, etc. PhD/Undergraduate courses: Follow the Generative AI Policy Guidance from Stanford’s Office of Community Standards. Tips for Setting Your Approach to AI Use Consider your course goals to inform how you guide students on using AI in your course. Explain your choices about AI use to students. Connect your guidance to the learning goals of the course, industry standards (e.g., publication standards), or common industry cases (e.g., needing to give thoughtful/persuasive/clear input on the spot during board meetings). State your policy in your course syllabus and the Course Policies and Norms form , and then follow up in class with your students. Citing Generative AI Use GSB students are expected to cite all resources, including generative AI tools , used to prepare their academic work. See the MBA and MSx assignment preparation policy . Nevertheless, many students are hesitant to report AI use. It can help to ask all students to report how they used AI (instead of whether they used AI). Asking students to regularly report their AI use can help normalize transparent AI use. Here are some ways you can ask students to acknowledge AI use : Submit chat logs associated with major assignments or exams Disclose AI use according to your industry’s emerging standards, if available Include statements with coursework to disclose how AI was used Example statement: Gemini was used to gather sources for this project and create an initial written draft based on the author’s outline. Substantial revisions were made by the author, with additional fact-checking with ChatGPT. Claude was used to generate data visualizations. The ideas discussed in this report are those of the author alone. Reflect on how they used AI for the assignment Sample prompt: How did you use AI in this assignment? What was or wasn’t effective? What will you do differently next time? Follow Stanford Library’s guide to citing AI in academic research, including guidelines and examples Follow examples from Stanford UIT on citing AI-generated content (see the FAQ “Can you provide some examples of how to cite when content is generated by AI?”). Template Syllabus Statements for Generative AI Use Adapt the template syllabus statements below to fit your course. AI Tools Permitted for All Coursework In this course, you may use generative AI tools for all coursework, including in-class work, according to the following guidelines for use. Guidelines for use: The following Stanford-approved generative AI tools should be used whenever possible when using AI tools for your coursework. These secure platforms may be used for most prompts, materials, and data (except high risk data ). Stanford AI Playground Google Gemini and NotebookLM (only when authenticated using your SUNet ID) Nectir AI (accessed through Canvas) [ Include if you have enabled this tool for your course. ] [ Optional: Share links to additional tools that are recommended for your course. ] Review and follow the guidelines provided in Stanford IT’s resource on Responsible AI at Stanford . When using a third-party, non-Stanford-approved AI tool such as a personal ChatGPT account, make sure to check the fine print terms before signing up. Avoid inputting information that should not be made public . This includes personal or confidential information of your own or that others share with you, as well as proprietary or copyrighted materials ( [ include relevant material types for your course: e.g., case studies, data sets, assignment prompts] ) that may be included in your coursework. [ Optional: Select one or more additional guidelines for use from the list below, according to what applies for your course. Highlighted text should be edited to fit your course policies. ] In this course, you will work with [sensitive / copyrighted / personal] data , including [ examples from your course: e.g., data sets, slide decks, case studies, interview transcripts] . When working with this data, you may only use the Stanford-approved tools [listed above] . You may not input this data into third-party AI tools, according to the guidelines provided in Responsible AI at Stanford . Note that high risk data is never appropriate for use with any AI tool. Cite all AI-generated material and/or explain how you have drawn on AI-generated material in your work. Please cite generative AI use that contributes to your coursework in the following way: [ describe your preferred format (see examples above) ] . Be prepared to fact-check and critically evaluate all AI-generated information. Generative AI tools can provide false information (called ‘hallucinations’), perpetuate biases and/or stereotypes, or draw on copyrighted information without proper attribution, and such problematic information is often presented very convincingly. The materials these tools generate does not necessarily meet the standards of this course. AI Tools Permitted for Some In-class Work In this course, you may use generative AI tools for select in-class work and take-home coursework, if you choose, according to the following guidelines. [ 3 options for explaining for which in-class work AI tools will be allowed: ] [ Option 1 ] Refer to the Course Policies and Norms form for the assignment types on which AI tools are allowed. [ Option 2 ] You may use AI tools during class when electronic devices are allowed. [ Option 3 ] You may use generative AI tools for [ specify allowable assignment types, e.g., homework assignments, problem sets, projects/papers, and exam prep] , but not on [ specify not allowable assignment types, e.g., for in-class exercises, on exams or quizzes] . [ May parallel the categories given in and/or refer to the Course Policies and Norms form . ] [ May follow with rationale of why AI use is restricted for certain assignments or exams. ] Guidelines for use: The following Stanford-approved generative AI tools should be used whenever possible when using AI tools for your coursework. These secure platforms may be used for most prompts, materials, and data (except high risk data ). Stanford AI Playground Google Gemini and NotebookLM (only when authenticated using your SUNet ID) Nectir AI (accessed through Canvas) [ Include if you have enabled this tool for your course. ] [ Optional: Share links to additional tools that are recommended for your course. ] Review and follow the guidelines provided in Stanford IT’s resource on Responsible AI at Stanford . When using a third-party, non-Stanford-approved AI tool such as a personal ChatGPT account, make sure to check the fine print terms before signing up. Avoid inputting information that should not be made public . This includes personal or confidential information of your own or that others share with you, as well as proprietary or copyrighted materials ( [ include relevant material types for your course: e.g., case studies, data sets, assignment prompts] ) that may be included in your coursework. [ Optional: Select one or more additional guidelines for use from the list below, according to what applies for your course. Highlighted text should be edited to fit your course policies. ] In this course, you will work with [sensitive / copyrighted / personal] data , including [ examples from your course: e.g., data sets, slide decks, case studies, interview transcripts] . When working with this data, you may only use the Stanford-approved tools [listed above] . You may not input this data into third-party AI tools, according to the guidelines provided in Responsible AI at Stanford . Note that high risk data is never appropriate for use with any AI tool. Cite all AI-generated material and/or explain how you have drawn on AI-generated material in your work. Please cite generative AI use that contributes to your coursework in the following way: [ describe your preferred format (see examples above) ] . Be prepared to fact-check and critically evaluate all AI-generated information. Generative AI tools can provide false information (called ‘hallucinations’), perpetuate biases and/or stereotypes, or draw on copyrighted information without proper attribution, and such problematic information is often presented very convincingly. The materials these tools generate does not necessarily meet the standards of this course. AI Tools Permitted for Take-home Work Only In this course, you may not use generative AI tools for in-class work. [ May include rationale, e.g., So that we can continue to get the most out of our in-person interactions. / This course is designed to challenge your creative, analytic, and critical thinking skills, and using generative AI tools may not always support your learning of these skills. This is true even in cases where generative AI tools may be used to replicate portions of work we are asking you to complete.] You may use AI tools for coursework completed outside of class, if you choose, according to the following guidelines. Guidelines for use: The following Stanford-approved generative AI tools should be used whenever possible when using AI tools for your coursework. These secure platforms may be used for most prompts, materials, and data (except high risk data ). Stanford AI Playground Google Gemini and NotebookLM (only when authenticated using your SUNet ID) Nectir AI (accessed through Canvas) [ Include if you have enabled this tool for your course. ] [ Optional: Share links to additional tools that are recommended for your course. ] Review and follow the guidelines provided in Stanford IT’s resource on Responsible AI at Stanford . When using a third-party, non-Stanford-approved AI tool such as a personal ChatGPT account, make sure to check the fine print terms before signing up. Avoid inputting information that should not be made public . This includes personal or confidential information of your own or that others share with you, as well as proprietary or copyrighted materials ( [ include relevant material types for your course: e.g., case studies, data sets, assignment prompts] ) that may be included in your coursework. [ Optional: Select one or more additional guidelines for use from the list below, according to what applies for your course. Highlighted text should be edited to fit your course policies. ] In this course, you will work with [sensitive / copyrighted / personal] data , including [ examples from your course: e.g., data sets, slide decks, case studies, interview transcripts] . When working with this data, you may only use the Stanford-approved tools [listed above] . You may not input this data into third-party AI tools, according to the guidelines provided in Responsible AI at Stanford . Note that high risk data is never appropriate for use with any AI tool. Cite all AI-generated material and/or explain how you have drawn on AI-generated material in your work. Please cite generative AI use that contributes to your coursework in the following way: [ describe your preferred format (see examples above) ] . Be prepared to fact-check and critically evaluate all AI-generated information. Generative AI tools can provide false information (called ‘hallucinations’), perpetuate biases and/or stereotypes, or draw on copyrighted information without proper attribution, and such problematic information is often presented very convincingly. The materials these tools generate does not necessarily meet the standards of this course. Additional Resources Quick Start Guide to AI and Teaching , GSB Teaching and Learning Hub Teaching in the AI Era , GSB Teaching and Learning Hub AI Playground , Stanford UIT Responsible AI at Stanford , Stanford UIT Important Note: Technology is changing at a rapid pace. While we make every attempt to ensure our content is updated to reflect changes to the interface and functionality, we can only guarantee the accuracy of the content on this resource page when it was written or recorded. Please be sure to check the software developer's website for the latest updates and release notes for the most up to date information. If you have questions or concerns, or need additional support, please contact us. Unless otherwise noted, you may copy and redistribute this resource in its unmodified form under the terms of the Creative Commons BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license (attribution, non-commercial, no-derivatives). How can we help? Submit your questions or a request for assistance by completing the Teaching and Learning Hub’s Contact Us form. Get Support at GSB GSB classroom support hotline: 1-650-736-3342 Teaching support: Contact the Teaching and Learning Hub IT support: Contact Digital Solutions Equipment requests: Submit a request here Classroom requests: Contact Facilities Library resources: Available here Canvas support: 24/7 help (via phone, and chat) is available using the Help button in the left navigation of Canvas Additional Stanford Resources Stanford Teaching Commons Stanford Center for Teaching and Learning University IT helpline: 650.725.4357 Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Linkedin Teaching and Learning Hub Department LINK Stanford Graduate School of Business 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Jobs Library myGSB Dashboard Contact GSB Visit Campus Stay in Touch Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University © Stanford Graduate School of Business